every single day I'm tired of those
countless unsolicited emails Outreach
messages
it's time to build an AI automation that
will keep my inbox pristinely clean once
and for all and I gotta be honest when I
build this automation it completely blew
my mind I tried to solve this problem
for years now and I kid you not until I
discovered the AI solution first I
created some sophisticated filters
inside Gmail that will find a keyword
unsubscribe and automatically archive
new emails but 15 to 20 of emails still
trickled through and that's hundreds and
sometimes thousands of emails I also
tried services such as unenroll me to
automatically unsubscribe from all
newsletters and guess what they sold
user data but the one thing I was never
able to beat is how to filter out those
cold Outreach message and they get a lot
of them especially when I do product
launches so I just marked them as spam
every single time hundreds every month
and thousands every year frustrating now
that you feel my pain and trust me I
feel yours let me show you how I use
artificial intelligence to keep my inbox
pristinely clean and it's super simple
in the description of this video you're
going to have a link to a pre-build for
Dean automation boarding is a browser
extension that automates your manual
workflows click on the try button and
the first time you run this automation
you'll be asked to download the browser
extension then let's integrate our inbox
with Gmail
okay and just like this the automation
was enabled let's go ahead and test it
out the starting point is my pristinely
clean inbox but I do have quite a few
emails that we can test this automation
on for example here is a newsletter
email from Adobe so what I want to do is
I want to forward this email to myself
to see how the automation handles it
and send and it appeared in the inbox
for a second and then it disappeared
right away there are no emails
I can click on more and click on all
emails and then find that email over
here here's our email which was archived
automatically here's a cool Pro tip you
can click on protein and click on show
activity to see every time that this
automation was triggered here we have
this automation that was triggered on
this creative growth Starts Here email
there we have it you can click on view
if you want to or you can go to more or
mail and there we have this email that
was archived now let's see if this
automation can handle this really
frustrating Outreach email let's forward
it to myself again quick note here it
might take up to a few minutes for a new
email to get processed by pardin so
beware it's not instant if you're new to
this channel we cover automations that
help you reclaim your precious time and
learn how to leverage artificial
intelligence to work smarter not harder
and finally to discover those use cases
to become the top one percent knowledge
worker if that resonates hit that
subscribe button
let me show you what's inside the
automation that we've just run let's
open up our Dean and here we have open
in the Builder I'm going to show you
every single action that is a part of
this automation here we have when an
email is received so when we have a new
email then this automation gets
triggered then we're using open AI
classification action that will process
the body of this email and then we're
going to figure out what type of email
is this and here I provided three
different options it can be a cold
Outreach email it can be a newsletter
email or it can be something else I gave
openai a little bit of context about
what text it's looking at so we're
classifying an email body and we're
using gpt4 model so click on done up
next we have this conditional statement
that is going to check if the class that
is outputted by openai does not contain
other categories so this means that it
has to be either a newsletter or called
Outreach so click on done and here we
have two branches so if that condition
is true if it is in fact not other then
we're going to Archive the email that
was just received and now let me show
you how to build your very own custom AI
automation for your inbox entirely from
scratch
learning this will unlock the real super
powers because you'll be able to do
things like sending custom notifications
in apps like slack or even automatically
categorizing your invoices and adding
the information into a spreadsheet and
so much more for this build I'm going to
create an automation that will
automatically apply a label to a given
email for example this can be an invoice
a support email or an internal company
email let's go ahead and build it the
first thing that I want to do is create
a label that will later apply to a given
email you can do it directly from Gmail
click on the plus icon and create a
label in my case I already have my
labels created here I have called
Outreach customer support invoices and
internal team emails now it's time to
build the automation let me open up our
Dean Chrome extension click on Create
and the first action I will add is going
to be a trigger from Gmail when an email
is received received
click on done then I want to classify
that email using openai let me click on
new action by default you will not see
openai show up over here so click on
this plus icon to integrate open AI
click on open the eye here and if we
scroll down there we have get
classification generated by open AI here
we'll need to provide text that open AI
will be processing I have text being
outputted from our Trigger action and
then here I have a lot of different
fields body subject line Etc I'm going
to pick the body of this email and for
the second argument let's create a few
classes here I have the class name
internal emails
customer support
and let's add invoices we can also add
some description such as this emails
come from people who work at redeem
these are customer support emails emails
that contain invoices then we have some
context for classification and the model
to use I'm going to leave context for a
classification blank because we've
provided some class descriptions that
were pretty good and finally here we get
to pick a model I'm going to use gpt4
model because it's the most accurate
click on done and there we have our two
actions before going forward and adding
a conditional block I want to test this
Automation and see how classification
Works since it works accurately I'm
going to click on done from over here
and call this automation email Glade
link
hit save
enable the automation just like this
here I found the invoice email from
Twitter so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to forward this email to myself to
trigger the automation click on send and
then open up bardeen to see how it's
going to classify it click on show
activity there it is let's click on the
drop down and it was classified
correctly as an invoice okay let's get
back to building our awesome automation
so I'm going to add a new conditional
block over here I'm going to say hey
check the class outputted by that action
here we have the name of the class we're
going to check if it contains invoices
and for this last part if we're doing
this processing multiple emails at the
same time then I want each email to go
to the respective Branch so I'm going to
pick this variable by the way I have a
dedicated tutorial on how to use
conditionals you can click on the card
over there the second done so if an
email has a class invoice then I want to
add a label to that email new action
find Gmail action and here we have
update email labels the first argument
asks okay which email do you want to
process we're going to process the email
that comes from the Trigger action then
we're going to add a label you can add
multiple labels but for our use case
we're going to add label invoices and
just like this I can click on done but I
do have two more labels in this
automation for example I have this
customer support label and internal
emails so let's use the no branch and
I'm going to add another conditional
block that's going to have the exact
same setup
and let's type customer support this
time okay there we have it I'm going to
click on done
and add another label
using the Gmail action improve your
email customer support there we have it
let me click on done you can do the
exact same thing for your internal
emails if you want to in my case I don't
I'm going to click on done enable this
Automation and let's test this
automation one more time so this time I
want to forward that original Twitter
email back to myself to see if a new
label is going to get applied so I just
send it there and then it should appear
in the invoices which is currently empty
here we have our invoice that was
correctly labeled now let's find a
support email okay it looks like a
support email I'm going to forward it to
my son
well
let's hit send and then for customer
support nothing just yet but wait a
minute and there we have our email
number two enjoy your pristinely clean
inbox the links to the automations that
you saw in this video are in the
description by the way we live in the
age of AI and there's so many things
that you can do with artificial
intelligence if you want to learn more
about different AI actions inside
pardine make sure to click on this video
next to see what you can do